ROUND-BASED reproduction of cloud-induced icing conditions has taken on a consistent form. Whether the test facility is designed for propulsion testing, such as the Arnold Engineering and Development Center (AEDC) Engine Test Facility J-2 test cell,1 or aerodynamic testing, such as the NASA Lewis Icing Research Tunnel,2 water is typically sprayed by the nozzles of a system of spray-bars in an upstream portion of a dry air wind tunnel. 

In such designs, warm water is atomized by high-pressure air within each of the nozzles located at the trailing edge of the spray-bar. The resulting mist, composed of appropriately sized water droplets, is entrained by the moving tunnel air in the wake of the spray bars, where it goes into a supercooled state based on the subfreezing air temperatures. The supercooled microdroplets are then transported downstream and dispersed with the objective of forming a uniform droplet cloud within the test section to mimic atmospheric icing conditions.

A primary design consideration of the ground-based icing cloud is the distribution and quantity of liquid water content (LWC) at the test section. LWC is de  ned as the mass of liquid water per unit volume of air, and its uniformity at the test section is considered a primary performance characteristic. Because trial-and-error adjustment of nozzles or test conditions can prove prohibitively expensive, computational methods have been proposed to numerically simulate the ground-based icing cloud by using a two-phase   ow algorithm. Since turbulent dispersion can be an important means of achieving spatial uniformity, such physics should be properly accounted for by the algorithm.

The objective of this study was to develop an accurate and robust numerical algorithm for the modeling of the icing cloud flowfield of an icing wind tunnel with spray bars. The developed algorithm was used to quantify effects of the primary aerothermodynamic parameters on LWC uniformity to aid in designing future icing tunnels. This particular study focuses on modeling ground-based icing clouds in the AEDC Aeropropulsion Test Facility (ASTF). The results, however, are thought to be generally applicable to many spray-bar icing tunnels (aerodynamic and propulsion).