In CFD simulations of multiphase flow systems, one of the commonly used approach is the **Euler-Euler** multifluid model. The Euler-Euler multifluid model involves sets of conservation equations (mass, momentum and energy) for **each fluid** in the multiphase domain. This is accomplished through the addition of **volume fraction fields** for each of the fluid components with the addition of **interfluid transport terms** which are typically approximated using constitutive relationships. 
The Euler-Euler approach treats each of the phases as a **disperse continuum** with material parameters corresponding to the mean droplet (liquid), bubble (gas) or particle (solid) size within a continuum of other fluid domains. The Eulerian approach is also applicable to heat and mass transfer. In the case of the reaction kinetics, the interfluid interaction terms are related to the order of reaction and local volume fraction of the reactants (and products). One of the fundamental challenges in solving these multiphase equations is presence of momentum transfer between different phases (gas, liquid and solid), which occur simultaneously. Equations describing momentum transfer in a multiphase system need to be formulated. The governing equations and the corresponding constitutive relationships are then solved using numerical methods such as finite element or finite volume.


The most common approach for conducting such simulations is the so-called Euler-Euler approach. In this approach, both the liquid phase and gas phase are treated by an Eulerian method. Some models track explicitly the interface between the phases, while others do not [e.g., the volume of fluid (VOF) method (Hirt and Nichols, 1981)]. Although the **interface is not tracked directly**, it nevertheless can be re-constructed (e.g., using a **linear function** (Rider and Kothe, 1998) based on the volume fraction of gas, commonly referred to as the **colour function ‘C’**). For example, in the case of a water-air flow, one can define the value of ‘C’ in a control volume as being either 0 or 1 for water or air, respectively. When ‘C’ is between 0 and 1, an interface between the two phases exists in that control volume and can be re-constructed [e.g., by using the piecewise linear interface calculation (PLIC) method (Rider and Kothe, 1998)]. 
Models in the Euler-Euler approach can also be grouped into the **one-fluid model** and the **two-fluid model** (also referred to as the **mixture model** and **Eulerian model** in ANSYS-FLUENT, respectively) and is based on the VOF method which is used to capture the interface between the phases. 
The one-fluid model solves only one set of momentum equations as the two phases are treated as a mixture ignoring the interaction between them. In the two-fluid model, the interfacial effect is modelled by using different forces: e.g., drag force, lift force, virtual mass force, turbulence dispersion force and wall lubrication force. In this model, the continuity and momentum transport equations are solved for each phase individually.

The two-fluid model was verified to be the most accurate model in the Euler-Euler approach. Using the multiphase flow database compiled by Lucas et al. (2005, 2010) and Prasser et al. (2007) for water-air bubble flows in a vertical pipe, Frank (2005) and Frank et al. (2008, 2010) improved the two-fluid multiphase flow model implemented in ANSYS-CFX. The radial distributions of the volume fraction of the air at selected column heights were compared to the experimental results, and good agreement was achieved.

In ANSYS-FLUENT, the two-fluid model (referred to as the Eulerian model) could be combined with the VOF model to overcome the inaccuracies that plagued the classical VOF model. In view of this, the two-fluid model combined with VOF is the most accurate model that is currently available for determination (or delineation) of the interface between the liquid phase and gas phase in a two-phase fluid.
